The Joe Rogan experience. But yeah,
the next 10 rounds you started to take over and you were solving the riddle.
It's interesting that the difference in power puncher.
So like there's levels of power punchers.
We always thought of him as this power puncher, like the crusher,
he knocked a lot of people out, but then there's like a Julian Jackson level.
There's a difference. Some people just go stiff and George Foreman.
Yes. He like Doug, George could kill you. Yeah. See.
It's right. The Joe Frazier fight like Jesus Christ. Yes. Terrifying. Yeah.
Yeah. George was one of them. I mean, there was a,
there's been a bunch of guys like that, but that's that,
that different level of power punching, I mean, Earnie shavers was another one.
There was certain guys, you know, I mean, man, Thomas Herns in his prime,
the way, the way he put away, Roberto Duran, holy, kill you.
And it also the torque, you know, the,
there was so much distance between like the, the, the length of his arms,
the width of his shoulders. And then when that punch would come in, jeez.
Catch you on the end. You got.
Trouble get caught on that last, that last power area.
It would just put the lights out.
Kurt Coldwell I've never had that kind of power. It was like a snapping power.
I mean, listen, he did have power. I don't want to take away from him,
but he definitely, he beat a lot of guys in their home towns, home countries.
Like, and that's a reason why, like at a certain point in the fight,
you would see him hit a guy.
And then all of a sudden their body language was different.
And I think one thing that was lost on my whole career that nobody ever talked
about was I probably had one of the best teams in the sport of boxing over the
last, you know, at that time, 10 years, like I had beaten the best,
the heaviest punchers in, in the game. And in my weight class,
like if you look at COVID live out of all the damage that he's done in the light
heavyweight division, he had 20 rounds.
He had one moment, he didn't have a wobble.
He didn't have a sh he didn't shake me up anywhere, but one moment,
and it was a flash moment. So just quantify that,
like a guy who his name was the crusher, like he is who he is.
He had one moment in 20 rounds. So a lot of it had to do with my chin.
A lot of it had to do with my toughness, um, which is also underrated.
And I just like, I know this is going to sound dramatic.
I know it's going to sound dramatic, but I didn't like to lose.
And for me it was kind of like either win or die. Like that's a fact, like,
that's how I felt like it wasn't that serious,
but that's how it felt like I always thought about Sunday morning. Like, dude,
if you lose, it's gonna be a crazy ride home on that plane.
Family's going to be looking crazy, feeling bad.
Everybody's going to be looking at you different, like,
and you're gonna feel crazy. Like I remember being curled up,
like in a ball on a Southwest flight coming back from Lenexa, Kansas,
uh, losing my, the last fight ever lost against John ravish,
a guy from Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
14, that is hilarious. 14, 14 years old, retired,
never lost again. And.
John was, it was a 14, 15 year old bracket.
So he was a little bit older and he was kind of a stocky again, country strong.
And we were watching these other ones separate back. And so, you know,
it's like a five-day tournament.
You could fight four to five times to get to the finals.
And I'm looking at him and I was a little bit intimidated.
He didn't punk me like, oh, I'm scared to death. But like, I was like, man,
I'm a little leery.
And he was knocking guys out and I was decisioning guys along the way.
It could have went either way. I think he won a three, two decision,
three judges, one his way, two judges went my way, but that would,
but if I was honest with myself, like I got beat before the fight.
And at that moment, like feeling the way I felt coming home,
I made up my mind like, dude, as much as that's up to me,
like that's never going to happen again. Like I can't control every,
every aspect of the fight gang stuff happens,
but it's not going to be because you beat me before the fight.
I can't live with this anymore. So that was my motivation man,
that just to drive, like it was like win or die. And then,
and then here's the thing about boxing. The only, I don't know about MMA,
but the only sport that I know of where one loss changes your pay scale.
Like if you have a minimum, okay, you win a title.
Your first defense is this second defense is that these are your minimums.
We'll negotiate beyond that. You know, whatever, whatever,
go ahead and lose one. That's going to get cut in half.
So a loss literally takes food off my family's table.
I also knew that my critics and my supporters, but namely my critics,
they had a front row seat, every fight.
At the time.
They're looking down or looking up, looking down, looking up.
So I get in the ring, you know,
before the first bell would ring and I go around and kind of just feel the ring
out and kind of look out and I'd always see them looking is tonight going to be
the night. So I had that weigh in on me.
I had the supporters that believed in me and was riding for me. And I looked,
you know, first couple of roles, my family's right there. My wife,
my kids would always blow her a kiss.
Like all of this stuff was like tangible and real to me.
And that's the stuff that would drive me.
And so when I get knocked down by COVID live like that's fight or flight time,
baby, like whatever's in, you is going to come out. If you got some turn in you,
that's the time you going to turn,
it's going to be self preservation mode and he's going to be,
so you're going to be more focused on surviving than you are trying to win.
And I thank God man, that, that, that he had his hand on me that night, bro.
And that what was in me was real. And it was enough to break him.
And the rest is history.
The rest is history. It isn't,
it is amazing how much energy people get from haters. I mean,
I don't, I don't recommend reading negative comments or negative articles,
but it's amazing how people with a certain kind of resolve a championship
resolve will take that hate or.
And you'll get up 15 minutes earlier than you're supposed to.
And you'll have more intensity and your shadow boxing and you'll,
you'll just push harder.
But I don't want to give the haters too much credit that it's, what's all you,
I don't want to get too much credit. They gave you fuel though. But it was,
it was weird though. And I don't even know how to quantify.
I don't even know how to like explain it, but like early in my career, uh,
they got a lot more credit and you know, I got great mentors,
man. Um, my pastor Napoleon Kaufman, former Raider, um,
it's a great man of God, just a great, great man. He would always come like,
man, pastor, man, they're hating on me and he'd be like, listen, son, listen,
stop giving these people all this credit man. He said, listen, man, they got,
they can't do anything to you unless God allows it. Man.
Stay focused on what you got to do.
So I started to get it as I evolved in my pro career.
And as I started to mature as a man, so I knew they were there.
That element was always going to be there.
But I started letting that element of work for me. Like I wouldn't like,
I wouldn't just, you know, just, just be enamored with it.
And I wouldn't just sit there and read comments and stuff. You know, frankly,
the last three or four years of my career, I didn't read a mention,
not one mention on Twitter.
I didn't look at comments on Instagram every now and again,
some would slip through, but I knew they were there.
And I knew generally what was being said.
I knew generally what the articles in the headline would read. So it was there,
but the real driving force was the people that were writing for me fighting for
me, supporting me, believing in me, that element was there.
And I was going to address that element through my performance. But they didn't,
I don't want to give them too much credit though. They don't deserve.
That much. They don't deserve that much credit, but they're good though.
They're.
Good to have.
It's in there,
but you were very wise in the way you manage their influence by not reading
those kinds.
Not all the time, but like I got the revelation, like I said,
at a certain point, like, man, I'm done with this, bro.
I only started to read comments again. Um,
frankly I didn't watch boxing for the past three or four years of my career.
Really? And, and I'm a boxing buff. Why didn't you watch?
I was burnt out the opinions, the biased, the,
the, the double standards. Good stuff too,
but I would just burn and it was so weird for me because I'm the guy that would
break his neck to go watch Tuesday night, Gillette fights as a kid like, dude,
I gotta get back, dude. You don't even know who's fighting. It doesn't matter.
It's two guys in the ring. I'm watching it Friday night fights.
So many years I was over it going through what I went through with the lawsuit,
going through what I went through with the injuries,
the highs and lows and everything in between. I was just burnt.
Uh, well, can you refresh my memory? The loss was a promotion lawsuit.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was, it was, uh, you know, I can't get too much into it,
but it was just something that man, I, I just, I,
I fought for myself and you know, but it was, it was a long two year journey.
Um, on my best day, I'm like, you're doing the right thing. So I stayed, stay,
stay in the race, keep fighting. It may not look. It,
it may not be going your way now, but just stay in. Like you're not fighting.
Money's not coming in, but just stay the course.
You're doing the right thing on my worst day. I'm like, oh, you're blowing it.
You getting arrested on you. And you know,
people are writing on war with brother fight in the courtroom and fighting the
ring and I'm like, look, that's not, Hey, I'm just trying to,
I'm trying to fight for what I believe is true. So, but, but I grew up a lot,
but coming out of that house, like, man, I'm done with all that stuff, man.
Like, I don't know how many years I got left in this sport,
but I'm not focused on y'all.
I got to focus on me and it wasn't until I retired and got full-time in a
broadcasting and commentating that I started to watch again, I started to,
you know, understand who was out there on the, you know,
in the landscape and research in it. But I didn't watch it for many years.
That's crazy.
Yeah. I was done. It makes sense. I mean,
you probably in your early days were so hungry for boxing because you had so
much desire that you wanted to watch it all the time. Excuse me.
But the amount of effort required to become a champion.
And see the behind the scenes though. Hmm.
Then you grow up and you see the business side and you see the dark side.
It's like, mm it's different. The darkness dark side.
Yeah. There's a lot of that man in boxing. I mean,
it's historical that Don king Mike Tyson stories. I mean,
there's so many stories like that. And Don king Muhammad Ali,
there's so many stories like that. It's it's so sad.
It's it's an awful side of the business. It is.